the mighty spinosaurus measuring 17
meters from tail to its terrifying teeth
it was the biggest killer ever to walk
the earth
it also had senses verging on the
supernatural but it didn't use them to
hunt Peking duck billed dinosaurs
instead it preferred something
altogether more slippery spinosaurus is
unique not just because of its sheer
size it has a host of other special
adaptations as well first of all look at
the head so it's long and elongated with
the nostrils on top very much like a
crocodile and then the teeth they're not
curved for ripping and tearing flesh
instead they're straight and conical
which means they're much better at
gripping and a holding struggling
slippery prey it turns out that this
animal is surprisingly well adapted for
something unexpected fishing but
catching prey in water is no mean feat
unless you have a super sense scientists
discovered Spinosaurus is remarkable
super sense when they put its skull
through a super detailed CT scanner what
they discovered was a range of tiny
holes peppered throughout the snout and
they realized that those were very
similar to another water dwelling
monster that also has these pits and is
around today
hey there little fella this is a
spectacled caiman and it is still a
relative youngster they get to be a good
deal bigger than this and like all
crocodilians it has a fine sense of
hearing smell and sight but the second
it goes under murky water
all of those become dulled and then it
relies on a true super sense running
down the length of the jaws are these
little bumps those are incredibly
sensitive to changes in pressure this
wonderful little crocodilian can sense
fish that are swimming by underwater
even if it can't see them just like
Spinosaurus could using its incredible
super sensing snout it could wait with
its jaws submerged until the perfect
moment to strike this was a lethal kill
no amount of murky water could hide you
from Spinosaurus it's pressure sensitive
pits
with immense sight and it's super sushi
sensing ability to strike without seeing
Spinosaurus was seriously dead
[Music]